walkthroughs/week-2-web-development/portfolio-walkthrough.md, before:

# Portfolio Page

## Getting Started

This week, you'll use HTML to create a portfolio webpage, and you'll use App
Engine to deploy that webpage to a public URL.

You can return to this walkthrough anytime by running this command:

```bash
teachme ~/step/walkthroughs/week-2-web-development/portfolio-walkthrough.md
```

Click the **Start** button to begin!

## Directory Structure

You'll be working from the `portfolio` directory. Take a minute to look at the
files under that directory.

-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/pom.xml">
      pom.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is a Maven configuration file. This file sets up the libraries the project
    uses.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
      index.html
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is an HTML file that will be rendered by the browser.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/script.js">
      script.js
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    contains JavaScript that makes the page interactive.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/style.css">
      style.css
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    contains CSS that styles the page.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml">
      appengine-web.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is App Engine's configuration file. This file tells Google Cloud how to
    deploy your code.

Try navigating to the various files in this project and viewing their contents
in the Google Cloud Shell editor.

You'll learn more about these files in the following steps.

## Run a Development Server

This project is a web application that contains HTML files. To make that HTML
available to your web browser, you need to run a **server** to host the file.

To run a development server, first navigate to the `portfolio` directory:

```bash
cd portfolio
```

Then execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

This command tells Maven to run an App Engine development server, which is
useful for testing changes before deploying your site publicly. You'll run this
command a lot over the next few weeks!

The first time you run this command, Maven will automatically download all of
the libraries and files required to run a server, so it might take a few
minutes. When the command completes, you'll see this in the console:

**INFO: Dev App Server is now running**

Now that you have a server running, your browser can send requests to it. Click
the <walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select **Preview on port 8080** to open a tab that displays the `index.html`
file.

Your new tab should show an example portfolio. You'll start customizing this in
the next step!

## index.html

Open the
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file in the Google Cloud Shell editor.

This file contains **HTML tags** that tell a browser how to render text. For
example, the `<h1>` tag renders as a heading, and the `<p>` tag renders as a
paragraph.

Modify the text in this file and save your changes. Try changing the heading
to include your name.

### Restarting Your Development Server

**Tip:** Pressing `ctrl + c` in the console will interrupt any process running
in the foreground, which will usually cause the program to abort.

Whenever you change your code, you need to restart your server to see your
changes. Press `ctrl + c` in the console to shut down your server, and then run
the devserver command again:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

**Tip:** You can press the up arrow key to cycle through previous commands
instead of retyping them.

After your server is running again, click the
<walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select `Preview on port 8080` to see your changes. Get in the habit of rerunning
your dev server to test your changes often!

**Note:** If you don't see your changes after you refresh, your browser might be
caching an old version. Follow the instructions
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bypass_your_cache) to execute a
cache-clearing refresh.

## Example

The `examples/stanley` directory contains an example webpage. It contains
several files and directories:

-   `pom.xml` is Maven's configuration file.
-   `index.html` uses HTML tags to create a homepage that links to other pages.
-   `images.html` uses HTML tags to create an image gallery.
-   `random.html` loads JavaScript that shows a random image from the gallery.
-   `script.js` is JavaScript that defines a function that shows a random image.
-   `images/` contains the images used in the above files.
-   `style.css` is a CSS file that defines the styling for the HTML content.
-   `/WEB-INF` contains files that visitors to the site can't navigate to.
-   `appengine-web.xml` is App Engine's configuration file.

Deploy the example webpage by `cd`-ing into the `stanley` directory and then
running a dev server:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

Then look through the files in the `stanley` project to see an example of HTML,
JavaScript, and CSS in action.

**Remember:** If you don't see changes after you restart your server, you might
need a
[cache-clearing refresh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bypass_your_cache).

When you're done looking at the example, `cd` back into the `portfolio` directory.

## HTML tags

If you‘re new to HTML, that’s okay! Here are a couple introductory tutorials:

-   [W3Schools](http://w3schools.com/html/html_intro.asp)
-   [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/HTML_basics)

Often, you'll want more details and examples for a specific type of HTML tag. The
[W3Schools tag reference](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/) is a great starting point for
that; we recommend looking at [divs](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_div.asp),
[anchors](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_a.asp), and
[buttons](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_button.asp) to begin.

For now, edit your
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to contain a `<p>` element that introduces you. Then run a dev server and
confirm that you can see your change.

## Uploading Images

All  of the client-side files are stored in the `webapp` directory. In order to
keep your images in one place, create a new `images` directory inside the
`webapp` directory. To create a new directory, right click on the `webapp`
directory. Then select "New Folder".

Once you've created the `images` directory, right-click it and select
`Upload Files...` to select an image from your computer.

To reference an image in your `images` directory, use a path that starts with a
`/` forward slash, like `/images/cat.jpg`. This path will work on a development
server and when you deploy to a live URL.

Modify your
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to include an image. It can be a selfie, or an avatar, or a picture of
your pet. This is your portfolio, so make it your own!

## CSS

You can use Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS, to style your HTML with formatting
and colors. The
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/style.css">
  style.css
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file contains some default styling.

Learning CSS is **optional** for STEP. You can skip this step if you want.
But if you're curious, the
[W3Schools tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_intro.asp) is a great
place to learn more. We recommend the
[box model](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_boxmodel.asp) and
[color](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_colors.asp) sections in particular,
in addition to the introduction and syntax.

Like with HTML tags, the [W3Schools CSS Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/)
is a great starting point for details and examples of a specific CSS property.
We recommend looking at [height](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_dim_height.asp),
[width](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_dim_width.asp),
[color](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_text_color.asp), and
[display](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_class_display.asp) to begin.

If you‘re interested in CSS, feel free to explore it further. But make sure you
aren't spending most of your time on styling. You can always make your projects
pretty after you get their core functionality working!

## JavaScript

You can use JavaScript to make your page interactive.

Open the
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/script.js">
  script.js
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to see a function that shows a random greeting.

Change this to show a random quote from your favorite TV show, or a random fact
about yourself.

### JavaScript Console

Your browser's JavaScript console will show anything you print out using the
`console.log()` function, as well as any errors. **This should be the first
place you look when you have a problem.** It's a good idea to always have your
JavaScript console open, so you see errors right away.

### Learn More

To learn more about JavaScript, we recommend starting with the
[JavaScript Fundamentals](https://javascript.info/first-steps) at
[javascript.info](http://javascript.info). Feel free to explore the further
sections; [Objects](https://javascript.info/object) and
[Arrays](https://javascript.info/array) will be especially helpful.
For more details on a specific built-in type or function, try the
[MDN Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference).

## Your Turn

Your goal this week is to customize your portfolio page. What that means is up
to you, but here are a few ideas to get you started:

-   Add a couple paragraphs explaining your background and what makes you you.
-   Add a list of projects you've worked on.
-   Add a link to your LinkedIn and GitHub profiles.
-   Add images! Create a gallery of your favorite places, or selfies, or
    pictures of your pets.
-   Add a couple paragraphs explaining what you enjoy photographing.
-   Add some blog posts explaining one of your hidden talents.

This is **your** portfolio page, so make it your own!

Don't be afraid to get creative, but focus on finishing a
[minimum viable product](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product)
that proves you have all of the pieces connected, and then come back later and
add extra features if you have time left over.

## Development Workflow

As you make changes, make sure you're testing them using your dev server. You
should test your changes in small increments: it's not uncommon to test your
changes after every few lines of code!

That might seem like overkill, but it's much better to detect bugs right away.
If you wait until the end to test, chances are you'll face many bugs, and it
will be difficult to debug any of them. Get into the habit of testing often now!

Remember, to run a dev server, you `cd` into a directory that contains a
`pom.xml` file, and then you execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

When you see `Dev App Server is now running` in the console, click the
<walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select **Preview on port 8080** to open a tab that shows your page.

After you've added a working feature to your project, it's a good idea to
commit your changes. It's easier for reviewers to understand many small
commits instead of a few large ones.

A good commit message is a summary of what a change _does_, not what was _done_.
Use the imperative tone:

```
# Good
Add selfie image to main page.
```

```
# Bad
Added selfie image to main page.
```

**Remember:** to commit, you have to stage the changed files, then commit it.

Replace FILEPATH with the path/to/the/changed/file. To stage a file, run:

```
git add FILEPATH
```

You can stage multiple files at once.

To check the staged files, run:

```
git status
```

To commit changes, run:

```
git commit -m "YOUR COMMIT MESSAGE"
```

## Live Server

When you're happy with your portfolio page and you're ready to show it to the
world, you can deploy it to a live server!

To deploy to a live server:

-   Navigate to
    [https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard).
-   Make sure your project is selected in the dropdown at the top.
-   Find the **Project ID** on that page.
-   Open the
    <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml">
      appengine-web.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    file.
-   Change `YOUR_PROJECT_ID_HERE` to your project ID.
-   Execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:update
```

-   The first time you run this command, the console will give you a link. Open
    that link, and login to that page using your `@google.com` account.
-   After you login, you'll see a long string of characters. Copy those
    characters.
-   Paste the characters into the console and press enter.

After the command successfully completes, you can now navigate to
`YOUR_PROJECT_ID.appspot.com` to see your portfolio.

When you're done, share this link in the chat and with your team!

## Pull Requests

Your host will be reviewing your code to provide feedback and support. If you
haven't already, follow the instructions
[here](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
to create a pull request from your code so your host can review it.

You don't have to wait until you're finished to send your code for review. In
fact, it's better if you send multiple small pull requests instead of one big
one!

Make sure your code is reviewed and merged into your repo before the end of the
week.

## Congratulations!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

Congratulations, you now have a portfolio page deployed to a live URL! Make sure
you share your URL with your team and in the chat.

If you have extra time left over, consider adding a page that describes your
experiences with STEP so far, or writing JavaScript that makes your page
interactive, or using CSS to make your page more beautiful.

Next week, you'll learn about server-side code and add a comment feature to your
portfolio.

When you're ready, start the next walkthrough by running this command:

```bash
teachme ~/step/walkthroughs/week-3-server/comments-walkthrough.md
```

Commit message:

Add instructions to set Java 8 as the default Java version.

walkthroughs/week-2-web-development/portfolio-walkthrough.md, after:

# Portfolio Page

## Getting Started

This week, you'll use HTML to create a portfolio webpage, and you'll use App
Engine to deploy that webpage to a public URL.

You can return to this walkthrough anytime by running this command:

```bash
teachme ~/step/walkthroughs/week-2-web-development/portfolio-walkthrough.md
```

Click the **Start** button to begin!

## Directory Structure

You'll be working from the `portfolio` directory. Take a minute to look at the
files under that directory.

-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/pom.xml">
      pom.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is a Maven configuration file. This file sets up the libraries the project
    uses.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
      index.html
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is an HTML file that will be rendered by the browser.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/script.js">
      script.js
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    contains JavaScript that makes the page interactive.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/style.css">
      style.css
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    contains CSS that styles the page.
-   <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml">
      appengine-web.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    is App Engine's configuration file. This file tells Google Cloud how to
    deploy your code.

Try navigating to the various files in this project and viewing their contents
in the Google Cloud Shell editor.

You'll learn more about these files in the following steps.

## Java 8

Before you continue, set your default Java version to Java 8 by running this
command:

```bash
sudo update-java-alternatives -s java-1.8.0-openjdk-amd64 && export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
```

You can ignore any error messages about not being able to find alternatives for
various plugins. Your Java version setting will persist unless you restart your
Cloud shell instance. To permanently switch to Java 8, add the command above to
your `.bashrc` file.

### Why Java 8?

Google Cloud recently announced support for Java 11, but Java 11 is not
backwards compatible with every library in these walkthroughs. To make sure
everything will work as expected, please use Java 8.

To make sure you're using the correct version of Java, run this command:

```bash
java -version
```

If this command prints a version like `1.8.0_xxx`, then you're good to go!

## Run a Development Server

This project is a web application that contains HTML files. To make that HTML
available to your web browser, you need to run a **server** to host the file.

To run a development server, first navigate to the `portfolio` directory:

```bash
cd portfolio
```

Then execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

This command tells Maven to run an App Engine development server, which is
useful for testing changes before deploying your site publicly. You'll run this
command a lot over the next few weeks!

The first time you run this command, Maven will automatically download all of
the libraries and files required to run a server, so it might take a few
minutes. When the command completes, you'll see this in the console:

**INFO: Dev App Server is now running**

Now that you have a server running, your browser can send requests to it. Click
the <walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select **Preview on port 8080** to open a tab that displays the `index.html`
file.

Your new tab should show an example portfolio. You'll start customizing this in
the next step!

## index.html

Open the
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file in the Google Cloud Shell editor.

This file contains **HTML tags** that tell a browser how to render text. For
example, the `<h1>` tag renders as a heading, and the `<p>` tag renders as a
paragraph.

Modify the text in this file and save your changes. Try changing the heading
to include your name.

### Restarting Your Development Server

**Tip:** Pressing `ctrl + c` in the console will interrupt any process running
in the foreground, which will usually cause the program to abort.

Whenever you change your code, you need to restart your server to see your
changes. Press `ctrl + c` in the console to shut down your server, and then run
the devserver command again:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

**Tip:** You can press the up arrow key to cycle through previous commands
instead of retyping them.

After your server is running again, click the
<walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select `Preview on port 8080` to see your changes. Get in the habit of rerunning
your dev server to test your changes often!

**Note:** If you don't see your changes after you refresh, your browser might be
caching an old version. Follow the instructions
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bypass_your_cache) to execute a
cache-clearing refresh.

## Example

The `examples/stanley` directory contains an example webpage. It contains
several files and directories:

-   `pom.xml` is Maven's configuration file.
-   `index.html` uses HTML tags to create a homepage that links to other pages.
-   `images.html` uses HTML tags to create an image gallery.
-   `random.html` loads JavaScript that shows a random image from the gallery.
-   `script.js` is JavaScript that defines a function that shows a random image.
-   `images/` contains the images used in the above files.
-   `style.css` is a CSS file that defines the styling for the HTML content.
-   `/WEB-INF` contains files that visitors to the site can't navigate to.
-   `appengine-web.xml` is App Engine's configuration file.

Deploy the example webpage by `cd`-ing into the `stanley` directory and then
running a dev server:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

Then look through the files in the `stanley` project to see an example of HTML,
JavaScript, and CSS in action.

**Remember:** If you don't see changes after you restart your server, you might
need a
[cache-clearing refresh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bypass_your_cache).

When you're done looking at the example, `cd` back into the `portfolio` directory.

## HTML tags

If you‘re new to HTML, that’s okay! Here are a couple introductory tutorials:

-   [W3Schools](http://w3schools.com/html/html_intro.asp)
-   [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/HTML_basics)

Often, you'll want more details and examples for a specific type of HTML tag. The
[W3Schools tag reference](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/) is a great starting point for
that; we recommend looking at [divs](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_div.asp),
[anchors](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_a.asp), and
[buttons](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_button.asp) to begin.

For now, edit your
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to contain a `<p>` element that introduces you. Then run a dev server and
confirm that you can see your change.

## Uploading Images

All  of the client-side files are stored in the `webapp` directory. In order to
keep your images in one place, create a new `images` directory inside the
`webapp` directory. To create a new directory, right click on the `webapp`
directory. Then select "New Folder".

Once you've created the `images` directory, right-click it and select
`Upload Files...` to select an image from your computer.

To reference an image in your `images` directory, use a path that starts with a
`/` forward slash, like `/images/cat.jpg`. This path will work on a development
server and when you deploy to a live URL.

Modify your
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/index.html">
  index.html
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to include an image. It can be a selfie, or an avatar, or a picture of
your pet. This is your portfolio, so make it your own!

## CSS

You can use Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS, to style your HTML with formatting
and colors. The
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/style.css">
  style.css
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file contains some default styling.

Learning CSS is **optional** for STEP. You can skip this step if you want.
But if you're curious, the
[W3Schools tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_intro.asp) is a great
place to learn more. We recommend the
[box model](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_boxmodel.asp) and
[color](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_colors.asp) sections in particular,
in addition to the introduction and syntax.

Like with HTML tags, the [W3Schools CSS Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/)
is a great starting point for details and examples of a specific CSS property.
We recommend looking at [height](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_dim_height.asp),
[width](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_dim_width.asp),
[color](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_text_color.asp), and
[display](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_class_display.asp) to begin.

If you‘re interested in CSS, feel free to explore it further. But make sure you
aren't spending most of your time on styling. You can always make your projects
pretty after you get their core functionality working!

## JavaScript

You can use JavaScript to make your page interactive.

Open the
<walkthrough-editor-open-file
    filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/script.js">
  script.js
</walkthrough-editor-open-file>
file to see a function that shows a random greeting.

Change this to show a random quote from your favorite TV show, or a random fact
about yourself.

### JavaScript Console

Your browser's JavaScript console will show anything you print out using the
`console.log()` function, as well as any errors. **This should be the first
place you look when you have a problem.** It's a good idea to always have your
JavaScript console open, so you see errors right away.

### Learn More

To learn more about JavaScript, we recommend starting with the
[JavaScript Fundamentals](https://javascript.info/first-steps) at
[javascript.info](http://javascript.info). Feel free to explore the further
sections; [Objects](https://javascript.info/object) and
[Arrays](https://javascript.info/array) will be especially helpful.
For more details on a specific built-in type or function, try the
[MDN Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference).

## Your Turn

Your goal this week is to customize your portfolio page. What that means is up
to you, but here are a few ideas to get you started:

-   Add a couple paragraphs explaining your background and what makes you you.
-   Add a list of projects you've worked on.
-   Add a link to your LinkedIn and GitHub profiles.
-   Add images! Create a gallery of your favorite places, or selfies, or
    pictures of your pets.
-   Add a couple paragraphs explaining what you enjoy photographing.
-   Add some blog posts explaining one of your hidden talents.

This is **your** portfolio page, so make it your own!

Don't be afraid to get creative, but focus on finishing a
[minimum viable product](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product)
that proves you have all of the pieces connected, and then come back later and
add extra features if you have time left over.

## Development Workflow

As you make changes, make sure you're testing them using your dev server. You
should test your changes in small increments: it's not uncommon to test your
changes after every few lines of code!

That might seem like overkill, but it's much better to detect bugs right away.
If you wait until the end to test, chances are you'll face many bugs, and it
will be difficult to debug any of them. Get into the habit of testing often now!

Remember, to run a dev server, you `cd` into a directory that contains a
`pom.xml` file, and then you execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:devserver
```

When you see `Dev App Server is now running` in the console, click the
<walkthrough-web-preview-icon></walkthrough-web-preview-icon> icon and then
select **Preview on port 8080** to open a tab that shows your page.

After you've added a working feature to your project, it's a good idea to
commit your changes. It's easier for reviewers to understand many small
commits instead of a few large ones.

A good commit message is a summary of what a change _does_, not what was _done_.
Use the imperative tone:

```
# Good
Add selfie image to main page.
```

```
# Bad
Added selfie image to main page.
```

**Remember:** to commit, you have to stage the changed files, then commit it.

Replace FILEPATH with the path/to/the/changed/file. To stage a file, run:

```
git add FILEPATH
```

You can stage multiple files at once.

To check the staged files, run:

```
git status
```

To commit changes, run:

```
git commit -m "YOUR COMMIT MESSAGE"
```

## Live Server

When you're happy with your portfolio page and you're ready to show it to the
world, you can deploy it to a live server!

To deploy to a live server:

-   Navigate to
    [https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard).
-   Make sure your project is selected in the dropdown at the top.
-   Find the **Project ID** on that page.
-   Open the
    <walkthrough-editor-open-file
        filePath="step/portfolio/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml">
      appengine-web.xml
    </walkthrough-editor-open-file>
    file.
-   Change `YOUR_PROJECT_ID_HERE` to your project ID.
-   Execute this command:

```bash
mvn appengine:update
```

-   The first time you run this command, the console will give you a link. Open
    that link, and login to that page using your `@google.com` account.
-   After you login, you'll see a long string of characters. Copy those
    characters.
-   Paste the characters into the console and press enter.

After the command successfully completes, you can now navigate to
`YOUR_PROJECT_ID.appspot.com` to see your portfolio.

When you're done, share this link in the chat and with your team!

## Pull Requests

Your host will be reviewing your code to provide feedback and support. If you
haven't already, follow the instructions
[here](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
to create a pull request from your code so your host can review it.

You don't have to wait until you're finished to send your code for review. In
fact, it's better if you send multiple small pull requests instead of one big
one!

Make sure your code is reviewed and merged into your repo before the end of the
week.

## Congratulations!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>

Congratulations, you now have a portfolio page deployed to a live URL! Make sure
you share your URL with your team and in the chat.

If you have extra time left over, consider adding a page that describes your
experiences with STEP so far, or writing JavaScript that makes your page
interactive, or using CSS to make your page more beautiful.

Next week, you'll learn about server-side code and add a comment feature to your
portfolio.

When you're ready, start the next walkthrough by running this command:

```bash
teachme ~/step/walkthroughs/week-3-server/comments-walkthrough.md
```
